
1. What is the advantage of pump-storage hydroelectric power plants respect run-of-the-river hydroelectric power plants?
(a) They allow to turbine large flows of water for long periods of time
(b) They help regulate surplus electrical energy from the grid in periods of low demand.
(c) They always work at rated power
(d) They require small jumps and can work with any type of turbine, making them very versatile.

2. What is the approximate value of the solar constant?
(a) 1361 W/m2
(b) 1361 kW/m2day
(c) 1361 kW/m2
(d) 1361 kJ/m2day

3. What is the role of the moderator in a nuclear power plant?
(a) Reduce fission neutron energy to facilitate fission chain
(b) Reduce steam pressure in the primary circuit
(c) Maintain the degree of enrichment of uranium above a given value
(d) Reduce the thermal power generated and avoid damage to the reactor core

4. What is the purpose of economizer in a coal fired power plant?
(a) Avoid the formation of nitrogen oxides during combustion
(b) Ensure complete coal combustion
(c) Heat the water before it enters the boiler
(d) Reduce the temperature of the gases exiting the stack

5. What of the following situations lowers the heat rate of a combined cycle power plant?
(a) If the steam flow that circulates through the boiler is reduced
(b) If increases the LHV of the fuel used
(c) If the fuel consumption increases to generate the same electric energy
(d) If the global efficiency is increased

6. The parameter fuel burn-up is referred to?
(a) The residual thermal power of a fuel assembly when is extracted from the nuclear reactor
(b) The minimum uranium enrichment needed to use uranium in a nuclear power plant to generate electricity economically viable
(c) The thermal energy generated by the nuclear fuel expressed in energy units over the uranium mass
(d) The degradation of fuel assembly rods when are extracted from the reactor vessel


7. What does the power coefficient represents in a wind turbine?
(a) The maximum power to be generated by a wind turbine
(b) The relation between the mechanical power in the wind turbine rotor and the electric power generated
(c) The relation between the power generated and the kinetic power carried out by the wind when interacts with the wind turbine
(d) The relation between wind speed and linear velocity of the blades end


8. Which of the following thermal fluids will be more suitable to be used in parabolic trough collectors to work at high temperatures (> 650 oC)
(a) Synthetic oil
(b) Water
(c) Molten salts
(d) All the fluids indicated are suitable


9. Related to the receiving tube of a parabolic trough collector, which phenomenon has the most influence on the thermal losses to the environment?
(a) The sun radiation reflected on the mirror surface
(b) The convection from glass cover of receiving tube to the environment
(c) The convection from the interior tube to the environment
(d) The glass cover transmissivity


10. Which of the next nuclear power plant technologies is the most commonly used?
(a) BWR
(b) GCR
(c) MSR
(d) PWR


11. What does the Betz limit indicate in a wind turbine?
(a) The maximum number of blades that a wind turbine could have
(b) The rotor maximum angular velocity
(c) The maximum power that can be extracted from the wind
(d) The maximum length of wind turbine blades for a given location

12. Under which of the following conditions will combined cycle power plants have a higher overall efficiency?
(a) If the combustion chamber consumes natural gas with a high LHV
(b) If is low the gas flow that circulates through the gas turbine
(c) The air temperature that enters the compressor is low
(d) If the compression ratio of the compressor is higher than the turbine expansion ratio

13. What is the approximated uranium proportion in the spent nuclear fuel when is extracted from the nuclear reactor?
(a)
95%
(b)
72%
(c)
25%
(d)
4,5%

14. Which of the following statements is false?
(a) The nuclear contribution in the world to generate electricity is of the order of 10%
(b) Regarding the production of world electrical energy, wind energy contributes 30%
(c) The contribution of fossil fuels to global primary energy consumption represents approximately 86%
(d) Coal currently contributes approximately 28% of global primary energy consumption

15. What statement is correct related to the photovoltaic modules
(a) The open circuit voltage is always less than the voltage at maximum power
(b) Short-circuit current is greater than the current at maximum power
(c) The electrical power generated will be higher as the temperature of the module is higher.
(d) The point of maximum electrical power is reached when the generated voltage and current are equal to the open circuit voltage and short-circuit current, respectively.



ANSWERS
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
b
a
a
c
d
c
c
c
b
d
c
c
a
b
b



